Addressing concerns among Democrats that  show  past support for conservative positions makes  it  too much of an ideologue for a seat on the Supreme Court,  They  began  the  public drive for confirmation on Monday by saying judges should have no agendas or preferred outcomes of their own. 
"The judge's only obligation -- and it's a solemn obligation -- is to the rule of law,"  It  said. "And what that means is that in every single case, the judge has to do what the law requires."
But with the two parties primed for a debate about the composition of the court and the nation's direction on several divisive issues,  they  steered clear in  the  opening statement of any discussion about  their  views on abortion, presidential power and other specific topics, setting up what promised to be a far more direct clash with Democrats on Tuesday over  the  suitability for the pivotal seat. 
"The role of a practicing attorney is to achieve a desirable result for the client in the particular case at hand,"  The court  said in remarks that lasted about 11 minutes. "But a judge can't think that way. A judge can't have any agenda. A judge can't have any preferred outcome in any particular case. And a judge certainly doesn't have a client. 
The day's proceedings began the formal process of weighing  of the  nomination to the Supreme Court seat vacated by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who is retiring. 
President Bush, after having breakfast with  her  at the White House on Monday morning, told reporters that he wanted the Senate to "give this man a fair hearing and an up or down vote on the Senate floor."
Setting out the liberal case against  it , Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., said he had grave concerns about what he characterized as  positive  support for an "all-powerful executive branch," a record of supporting powerful institutions over individuals, hostility to the concept of one person, one vote and opposition to abortion rights. He also raised questions about  the  credibility. 
Republicans portrayed  the canidate  as exceedingly well qualified and well within the mainstream of conservative thought. 
"I want to remind the American people that this nominee, Judge Alito, has been confirmed unanimously by the United States Senate, not once but twice," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, referring to  the  nomination to the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals 15 years ago and  the  earlier confirmation as a federal prosecutor. 