Anschutz  announced Tuesday that  it  was retiring from the boards of three companies in which  it  is the largest shareholder: Union Pacific Corp., Regal Entertainment Group and Qwest Communications International Inc. 
Anschutz , an influential developer in downtown Los Angeles and an increasingly active player in entertainment, is stepping aside at a time when the pressures and demands on directors of public corporations have intensified after a wave of accounting scandals. Qwest itself, the Denver-based telecom company  was  founded, was among the businesses targeted in federal probes, though  which  was not implicated in any wrongdoing. 
Tuesday's move ``will allow Mr. Anschutz to devote more time and attention to his privately held investments -- something he has desired to do for the past several years,''  said  spokesman Jim Monaghan said in a statement. 
Anschutz , 66, will have no trouble keeping busy. 
Ranked by Forbes magazine as the 28th-richest American, with a net worth of $7.2 billion,  he  has investments in about 100 businesses. has  earned  large  fortune in the oil and gas industry and  still  remains active in energy exploration. 
The  Anschutz Entertainment Group owns Staples Center, the Los Angeles Kings hockey team and nearly 30 percent of the marquee basketball franchise Los Angeles Lakers. The company is spending more than $1 billion to construct a convention center hotel and commercial project around Staples and $1 billion to build an entertainment district in London. 
The  Clarity Media Group owns the San Francisco Examiner and the Washington Examiner and will begin publishing the Baltimore Examiner in April. The company owns the rights to the Examiner name in more than 60 cities, including Los Angeles. 
the  motion picture company made ``The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe,'' which has collected nearly $300 million in U.S. box-office receipts. 
``Narnia'' helped Regal Entertainment recover from a midyear box-office slump by boosting the company's fourth-quarter profit 43 percent. Through a series of acquisitions,  that  built the Knoxville, Tenn., company into the nation's largest operator of movie theaters. 
The longtime Denver resident fiercely guards  its  privacy. Anschutz  rarely grants on-the-record media interviews and  rarely  seldom allows  Anschutz  to be photographed. The last time  Anschutz  gave a news conference was more than a decade ago during a failed bid to build a convention center in downtown Denver. 
Anchutz  founded Qwest on a plan to build a nationwide fiber optic network for Internet communications along the Southern Pacific Railroad lines, which  was  acquired in 1988. But the company's stock crashed after the number of fiber optic lines outpaced customer demand. 
Anchutz  cashed in about $2 billion, or about 20 percent, of  Anchutz  Qwest holdings. The SEC investigated the timing and circumstances of the 2001 stock sales but found no wrongdoing. Seven former Qwest executives have been charged since 2003 in a federal probe. 
They  joined the board of Omaha, Neb.-based Union Pacific, the nation's largest railroad, in 1996, when it bought Southern Pacific. 
He  ``was an active, engaged director whom I valued deeply as a sounding board for advice on many of the issues Union Pacific has faced over the years,'' Union Pacific Chairman Dick Davidson said in a statement. ``We will miss his insight, his enthusiasm and his judgment.''