Phyllis Huffman , a veteran casting director  who had a  long collaboration with filmmaker Clint Eastwood included work on ``Unforgiven'' and ``Million Dollar Baby,'' his two films that won Best Picture Oscars, died Thursday in New York City after a brief illness. Huffman  was 61. 
In a statement Friday, Eastwood called  Huffman , ``a visionary casting director with a true sense of what makes an actor right for the role.''
``I completely trusted Phyllis with the casting duties on all my movies,'' Eastwood said. ``The industry has lost a true professional and all of us at Malpaso (Eastwood's production company) have lost a loved family member.''
Born in the Bronx, N.Y.,  Huffman  graduated from Webster University in St. Louis and  -  worked for a time as a flight attendant on TWA. 
After moving to Los Angeles with  her  husband, actor David Huffman, in the mid-1970s,  Huffman  started  her  career as a casting director at MTM. She then  moved on to Paramount, where  she  worked for noted casting director Marion Dougherty. When Dougherty went to Warner Bros.,  Huffman  went with her. It was there that  she  began working with Eastwood. The first film  she  cast for him was ``Honkytonk Man'' in 1982. Other films  -  cast for Eastwood included ``Mystic River,'' ``Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil,'' ``A Perfect World,'' and ``Space Cowboys.''
Phyllis Huffman  eventually became head of casting for Warner's television division. In television,  she  cast the pilot of the hit series ``Murphy Brown,'' which starred Candice Bergen. 
Phyllis Huffman's  life in Southern California was marred by tragedy, however. In February 1985,  her  husband, then 40, was stabbed to death in San Diego's Balboa Park while trying to chase down a suspect in a mobile home burglary. The assailant, a 16-year-old Mexican national, was arrested and eventually sentenced to 26 years to life in prison. 
Grief stricken ,  Huffman  spoke at the sentencing phase of the trial, soon moved back to New York and restarted  her  life. She  formed  her  own independent casting company and  -  continued to work for Warner Bros., Hallmark Hall of Fame and Eastwood's Malpaso Productions. 
Huffman  also remarried and  -  is survived by  her  husband Jules del Vecchio; sons Mathew and Philip Huffman; step-son Matthew del Vecchio. She  is also survived by  her  mother, Grace Grennan; a brother, Chris Grennan and sister, Christine Stiller. 