Republican member of the United States House ,  Randall Harold Cunningham  resigned last November in a corruption scandal, inserted projects into appropriations bills that benefited two businessmen who were bribing  him , then  they  "bullied" Pentagon officials into awarding the men's companies inflated contracts, according to prosecution documents released on Tuesday. 
Randall Harold Cunningham , R-Calif., pleaded guilty last November to bribery and tax evasion. But the prosecution documents, which were drafted to help guide sentencing later this month, provide many new details about  Cunningham's  activities on behalf of the businessmen, Mitchell Wade, who pleaded guilty last month to bribing  him , and Brent Wilkes, who lawyers in the case have said also participated. 
"Cunningham bullied and hectored DOD officials in order to ensure that his co-conspirators received their pound of gold," federal prosecutors said in the documents. "Shamefully, he did this knowing that the contractors would extract such exorbitant profits from our nation's taxpayers that they would happily continue to ply him with millions of dollars in illegal payments and benefits."
Randall Harold Cunningham's  attorney could not be reached on Tuesday for comment. 
Quoting e-mail messages, grand jury testimony and  jury  correspondence with lawmakers, the prosecution's documents describe how the  bribe  made securing funds in annual appropriations bills  a top  priority for companies owned by Wade and Wilkes. 
"Cunningham's co-conspirators not only told Cunningham the programs for which he should request funding, they wrote the actual requests for him," the prosecution's documents said. 
A 2002 e-mail message from a  former  staff member to another said  that Cunningham  "stormed into his office" after learning  about  requests to the Appropriations Committee for financing had been reduced and  that he  said  he  "wants to take $1 million from some other big ticket item and put it back" in Wade's preferred program. The change was later made, prosecutors said. 