Larry  resigned Tuesday as president of Harvard University after a relatively brief and turbulent tenure of five years, nudged by Harvard's governing corporation and facing a vote of no confidence from the influential Faculty of Arts and Sciences. 
The announcement by  him , an economist and a former secretary of the Treasury, disappointed many students on the campus and raised questions about future leaders' ability to govern Harvard with its vocal and independent-minded faculty. 
But advisers and confidants of  him  said  that  privately concluded a week ago that  he  should step down, after members of Harvard's governing corporation and friends -- particularly from the Clinton administration -- made it clear that  his  presidency was lost. 
Larry ,  Summers  earned a base salary of $563,000 in the 2004-5 academic year and  actually  received a 3 percent raise last July, is to leave office June 30. Derek C. Bok, 75, who was Harvard's president from 1971 to 1991, will serve as interim president until a permanent successor is found. 
Hailed in  the  first days as a once-in-a-century leader,  Larry , 51, arrived with plans to expand the campus, put new focus on undergraduate education and integrate the university's schools. But  he  eventually alienated professors with a personal style that many saw as bullying and arrogant. 
The  desire to change Harvard's culture, which  was  saw as complacent, was accompanied by slights to some faculty and missteps like  the  statement last year that women might lack an intrinsic aptitude for math and science. 
And some of  the  major decisions -- including overhauling the undergraduate curriculum, appointing deans and mapping out a new campus -- were hugely divisive at the 370-year-old university. 
Several prominent donors said they were aghast at  the  fall. 
"How can anyone govern a university where a fraction of faculty members can force a president out?" said Joseph O'Donnell, a Boston business executive who is a former member of Harvard's Board of Overseers and a prominent donor. 
But several of  the  faculty critics --  -  are predominantly in the humanities and social sciences, but extended across the university -- said  they  made the right decision. "A strong leader is not just someone who can name a goal or force a change," said Mary C. Waters, a sociology professor, "but someone who can bring out the best in people and find ways to encourage teamwork."