Jeanine Ferris Pirro , the Republican candidate for attorney general, has begun an attack on MySpace.com, the popular Internet social network for teenagers and young adults, saying that it represents a threat to child safety. 
MySpace.com is owned by Rupert Murdoch, who controls News Corp., which owns The New York Post, a publication that has often been critical of  her . 
In an interview on Tuesday,  Pirro , a former Westchester County district attorney, said that  her  criticisms of MySpace.com were based on reports that the site is shocking to many parents and, according to the police, is attracting sexual predators. 
In a letter to Murdoch,  she  proposed that a forum "be convened as soon as possible" to include executives of News Corp. and MySpace.com as well as school officials and leaders of parent groups. 
"Together we can solve this problem,"  she  said. 
In the last year, The Post has printed less-than-flattering portrayals of  her ,  Pirro  two months ago announced  her  candidacy for attorney general after abandoning plans to run against Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
The paper published unflattering pictures of  her  and reminded readers that  her  husband, Albert, had served time in prison for tax fraud and had been found to have fathered a child out of wedlock. 
Pirro  said that  her  motivation for taking on the issue was a result of the work  she  did in  her  12 years as district attorney as a zealous pursuer of sex offenders. She  remains outspoken in supporting a law that would confine convicted sex felons civilly after their criminal sentences have ended. 
"I know that pedophiles are devious and cunning,"  she  said. "And it was clear to me that this was a vehicle to maintain their anonymity and reach out to our children."
She  added: "I'm not looking to shut anything down. But I'm trying to get experts together and deal with an issue that confronts this state and this nation."
Created in 2003 in Los Angeles by two businessmen, MySpace, which calls itself "a place for friends," has grown to more than 57 million users, including 25 million in the last four months. Murdoch's News Corp. bought it in July for $580 million. 
But the site has been embroiled in some controversy. 
In recent months, teachers in some states have warned parents that students who post personal information on the site, including provocative photographs, could fall prey to predators posing as cyberspace friends. 
Murdoch did not return telephone messages left at his office on Tuesday. 
By taking on the Web site,  she  is seeking to heighten  her  visibility in the state by focusing on an issue that will resonate with parents in the November general election,  her  aides say. 