Outin  on Tuesday defended Russia's handling of natural gas disputes with Ukraine and Georgia,  and  boasted of a new strategic weapon and  he  defended the country's contribution to the Group of 8 in response to suggestions from some critics at home and abroad that  his  policies have disqualified it from the club of elite democratic nations. 
"Everybody wants Russia to join the club and take an active part in its work because nobody wants the G-8 to turn into a gathering of fat cats,"  he  said. 
He  spoke at a news conference in the Kremlin that has become a near-annual affair and, as before, a telling window on the issues dominating debate here. He  answered 64 questions over three and a half hours with frequently salty language, a striking command of detail and only a hint of the temper that has flashed in previous public appearances. 
The  new year began with a dispute over gas supplies to Ukraine that included a brief shutoff of gas that, because of Ukraine's pipelines, was soon felt across Europe, provoking some of the harshest foreign criticism the Russian government has faced. On Tuesday,  he  tried to counter that by saying Russia had no intention of using gas or oil as an energy weapon. 
He  appeared poised and confident, speaking about a new warhead that  he  said could evade missile defense systems like that being built by the United States, but at the same time diplomatic. He  criticized the United States as the obstacle to Russia's membership in the World Trade Organization, but  he  said Bush personally supported it. He  expressed regret over accusations that four British diplomats were spies, but  he  promised it would not disrupt relations. 
At the same time,  he  defended close relations with Uzbekistan and Belarus, two countries that have faced international opprobrium. He  dismissed criticism of Russia's embrace of Uzbekistan's president, Islam A. Karimov, in the wake of the killings of hundreds of people during an uprising in Andijan last May, saying, "We know what happened in Andijan better than you."
"We do not need any revolutions there,"  he  added. 